This document describes the v1 Tidepool data formats.  Well, a sub-set of them right now, anyway.  But it will have all of them soon.

All events in the tidepool platform are JSON formatted.  They all share a "type" field that defines the type of the event.  The semantics of the other fields in the events are generally defined individually per type, but there are some common fields defined below.

## Common Fields

### deviceTime

`deviceTime` is a field that refers to the timestamp from the device in "YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss" format (ISO8601 without a timezone).  The generation of devices at the time this was drafted has no concept of timezone when keeping track of time.  They just provide the raw timestamp as it would be displayed to the user on the device's UI.  In order to support this behavior, we have created the field `deviceTime` to reflect a timestamp without a timezone that is assumed to be displayed "as is" in whatever timezone the current user happens to be viewing data in.

In a perfect world, this field would not exist.  There should be a single "time" field that is an ISO8601 timestamp including timezone information.  For the time being, tidepool supports timezone-less timestamps, however, via this field.

### id

Description goes here

### deviceId

Description goes here

### source

Description goes here

## Basals

Basal events represent a basal dosing over time.  At a high level they are a timestamp for when the dosing started, an amount of insulin given in units/h, and a duration in milliseconds.  There are two general types of basal events that tidepool understands:

* scheduled
* temp

Their formats are described below.

### Scheduled

This is a "scheduled" basal, it is a basal dosing that is operating according to the schedule built in to the pump.  This event indicates that the given basal rate should have happened if the schedule were to be performed and should always be emitted *even if a temp basal is in effect*.

``` json
{
  "type": "basal-rate-change",
  "deliveryType": "scheduled",
  "deviceTime": timestamp_see_common_fields,
  "scheduleName": name_of_schedule_from_settings,
  "value": number_of_units_per_hour,
  "duration": number_of_milliseconds_this_basal_rate_will_be_in_effect,
  "id": id_of_event_should_be_unique_per_device,
  "deviceId": identifier_for_device_should_be_unique_per_device,
  "source": moniker_of_thing_that_generated_datum
}
```

### Temp

Temp basals actually have two different types, first, there is the counterpart to the "scheduled" basal.  This should be emitted when a temporary basal is set.

``` json
{
  "type": "basal-rate-change",
  "deliveryType": "temp",
  "deviceTime": timestamp_see_common_fields,
  "scheduleName": name_of_schedule_from_settings,
  "value": number_of_units_per_hour,
  "percent": percentage_of_normally_scheduled_basal_that_should_be_delivered
  "duration": number_of_milliseconds_the_temporary_basal_will_be_in_effect,
  "id": id_of_event_should_be_unique_per_device,
  "deviceId": identifier_for_device_should_be_unique_per_device,
  "source": moniker_of_thing_that_generated_datum
}
```

Then, there is another event that represents that a temp basal was *canceled*.  I.e. it is an indication that the duration on the initial temp basal event is incorrect and the timestamp of this event should be used as the endpoint for the temporary basal.  This event looks like

``` json
{
  "type": "basal-rate-change",
  "deliveryType": "temp-stop",
  "deviceTime": timestamp_see_common_fields,
  "tempId": id_of_temp_basal_event_being_canceled,
  "id": id_of_event_should_be_unique_per_device,
  "deviceId": identifier_for_device_should_be_unique_per_device,
  "source": moniker_of_thing_that_generated_datum
}
```

## Bolus

TODO

## Bolus Wizard

TODO 

## CGM Blood Glucose (CBG)

TODO

## Self-Monitored Blood Glucose (SMBG)

TODO

## Settings

TODO
